hey guys and welcome to running form
Friday to point o this week on running
form friday we're going to take a look
at megan f thank you so much to megan
for submitting her video it's great
she's got all the angles we need we want
to see it from the front from the back
and from both sides if possible she only
did one side but that is quite all right
now I'm going to hand it over to
Jennifer who's gonna walk us through
Megan's gait analysis so what we're
gonna look at here with megan is her
arms notice how her arms are crossing
over her midline there also she's
holding them really high so she's
shifting her shoulders from side to side
rather than pumping her arms what we'd
like to see Megan do is drop her hands a
little bit lower so that her thumbs
almost touch her hip bones as they come
down so she's going to be pulling back
her elbow and driving her elbow back
rather than up from shoulder to shoulder
notice here with her little guy running
beside her he's got perfect placement
his arms are really low or she the arms
are super low and really sweeping right
across by the hips all right this next
angle that we're going to look at is
from the side what we're going to see
here is how upright megan is running we
need to get a little bit more forward
lean in there where gravity is just
pulling megan along so as soon as she
drops her hands a little bit more that's
also going to help enable her to just
fall into her stride and really has some
nice forward lean so now we're gonna
look at kind of the body position and
the stiffness of megan she looks a
little bit locked out where her body
looks pretty tense in the upper body and
her knees and hips and ankles look
pretty stiff so if megan could really
assume a little bit more of an athletic
position where her knees hips and ankles
are really relaxed this will help her
have more of an athletic stance as she's
running and keep her body moving and run
with a little bit more of a spring-like
motion
so here are things we'd like Megan to
work on the first is her athletic
position we want her to relax your
ankles knees and hips jumping up and
down here you can notice that the hips
are soft ankles are soft the next thing
we want to talk about are the arms
instead of crossing over the midline and
keeping them high relaxing the shoulders
pulling the elbows back letting that
thumb sweeps across the head the segway
drill helps with the forward lean
running in place leaning forward lifting
the foot off the ground now here we are
putting it all together lift and lean